So the first of these new features we'll see has to do with adding default function parameter values.
So we could do this in the past we just now have a newer more compact syntax to do it.
Here's what I'm talking about.
If we have a function make sure I'm in the right window I'll just go with our standard.
Multiply two parameters X and Y we return X times Y.
Right now if we call it with two parameters it works great.
Actually these are arguments we're passing in to arguments.
But if we leave one off we get not a number.
And that's because Y is set to undefined when we don't specify a value.
So if we wanted to have a default value for y if a user or another function call or developer does not
pass in a second argument we want a default value.
We could in the past do it this way we would manually check if type of Y equals undefined.
And if you don't remember how type of works it does not return the actual value of undefined it returns
a string containing the type.
So if I declare a variable w the value of W is undefined.
If I do type of W I get the string undefined.
So I see people do this sometimes and this won't work because you're always going to get a string back
from type of.
So we need to make this a string.
So if type of Y's undefined then we'll say y equals 1.
And this is the older way of doing it.
If we call multiply a four now we're multiplying four times one and we get four.
But if we pass into value for y we get twelve in this case.
So this is only happening if there is no Y there's a shorter way of doing this manual check before we
get to the newer way the newer feature you could use a ternary operator where you set y equal to and
then we have our condition type of Y equals the string undefined.
Question mark if this is true we'll set y to be one.
Otherwise y stays as y.
So if you pass into value like fives for Y this is false so this doesn't run.
This is what we end up setting y equal to y equals Y.
If you don't pass something in and it's undefined.
This is true.
So we end up setting y equal to one.
So this works but it's still pretty clunky.
It's not very user friendly or developer friendly.
We have a much better way thanks to the new default parameter syntax.
It looks like this right here.
So we define our function and right inside the parents where we are listing the parameters we can add
a default with equal sign and then a default value.
So here is the exact same thing except with a and b instead of x and y where B will default to 1 if
a value is not passed in.
So I could rewrite this if I commented out get rid of this entire line y equals 1.
And this just means if no Y is passed in if it's undefined.
Use this value.
So I'll run my code again make sure it still works if we only pass an eight.
We get eight if we pass in to an eight we get 16.
Let's do one more example.
If we were to define a function called Greece let's do it with an arrow.
Function this time.
So concept greets equals a function.
And this function will take a person and then a greeting.
And the way I want Greek to work is that I can call it like this.
Greet Tim and then some greeting like Yo.
And it will print out.
Yo Tim with an exclamation point let's say.
But if I just call greet Tim it should default the greeting to Hi.
The string Hi.
So all we need to do is say greeting equals Hi.
And that will give it a default value if greeting is not passed.
So we move this over a tad let's add in our simple console dot log.
I'll do a template literal string and then we'll add in the person which is the first parameter and
then the second actually I guess we want to say greeting first right.
Yo Tim.
Hi Tim.
So well two greeting with our curly braces and then a comma person exclamation point let's try it.
We'll do greet of Tim and won't pass anything in and we get high Tim.
But if we do greet of Tim and yo we get yo Tim.
Okay so that's another example.
We're using a string this time as the default value.
You can also do things with arrays or objects.
If you wanted to I'll just make up a dumb example.
If we have a function called Constant floor and let's say there are two parameters and why we'll default
to the array one two three
let's just console log X and Y.
So this does absolutely nothing but I just want to show you that we can use an array or an object or
any other value in JavaScript as the default value so let's call blah with one and we can see that X
is one.
Is the array.
But if I pass in 1 and 3 Now X is one and Y is three.
One really important note about default parameters is that the order absolutely matters.
So if I add in a third parameter here let's say for Grete I want it person greeting and then I don't
know punctuation which is this exclamation point at the end if I want it to default to exclamation point.
That's fine I can do this if I call Grete right now and I only pass in oh I need to update this so that
I'm actually using the exclamation point or punctuation if I call great again and I pass in on yeah
we get high on Yeah with an exclamation point.
So both of those default parameters kicked in greeting is high punctuation is exclamation point but
it does not work.
Of course if I tried to pass in person and punctuation like this the way that they are interpreted the
way that JavaScript knows which one needs to have a default value is purely based off of the order you
pass them in.
So there's no way for me to say here I want to pass in person as on.
And punctuation as a question mark and use the default greeting.
It doesn't work that way.
So all the default parameters also need to come at the end of your parameter list.
You can't make the first thing default and then have non default parameters afterwards.
So if you went back to multiply this example I couldn't do this.
X equals 1 and then just regular y if I try that and I multiply two what happens here.
Well X is going to be two and Y is undefined so there's no default for Y if I pass in two numbers it
works fine but the default is never going to work the way I want it to work unless I'm fine with Y being
undefined as well.
So this is not something you really see and it's not something I recommend you do your default parameters
come at the end.
And that's pretty much it.
So you can have as many as you want although if you're finding yourself adding a ton of defaults to
your parameter list there's probably a better way of writing the function but it's a really nice addition
just new syntax compared to doing something like this where you're manually checking for type so that's
it.
That's the newer way of adding default parameters.